## Migration Beta (1.x.x) ➡ 2.0.0

## Tag and Batch components

We removed the emphasis `origin` from the Tag and Batch components.
Additionally, we now use the `bg-vibrant` and `on-bg-vibrant` colors for the emphasis `strong` of the Tag and Batch components.

## Angular

> **Note:** We upgrade the components to use [`signals`](https://angular.dev/guide/signals). This requires the latest version of Angular (18.0.0 or higher). If you are using an older version, please upgrade to the latest versions (18 or 19) of Angular.

### Align angular events

We removed the `on` prefix for every event in Angular to match the best practices of Angular. The following events have been changed:

- `onClick` ➔ `click`
- `onChange` ➔ `change`
- `onFocus` ➔ `focus`
- `onBlur` ➔ `blur`
- `onInput` ➔ `input`
- `onRemove` ➔ `remove`
- `onSelect` ➔ `select`
- `onToggle` ➔ `toggle`
- `onClose` ➔ `close`
- `onTabSelect` ➔ `tabSelect`
- `onIndexChange` ➔ `indexChange`

## Foundation

### Web Fonts

We've replaced DB Screen fonts by their successor, DB Neo Screen. If you've copied over those fonts out of the DB theme package to your project manually, you would need to do this again for these new files.

### Design Tokens

- Removed `--db-adaptive-on-origin-hovered`
- Removed `--db-adaptive-on-origin-pressed`
- Removed `--db-adaptive-on-bg-basic-emphasis-60-hovered`
- Removed `--db-adaptive-on-bg-basic-emphasis-60-pressed`
- Removed `--db-adaptive-on-bg-basic-emphasis-50-hovered`
- Removed `--db-adaptive-on-bg-basic-emphasis-50-pressed`

#### Fonts

- Removed all `db-type-body-line-height-xx` variables
- Removed all `db-type-body-font-size-xx` variables
- Add new variables `db-type-body-xx` as combination of line-height and font-size

#### Border

- Renamed all `border-height` props to `border-width`

## Automate migration via CLI

We provide a CLI tool to auto migrate your source code. Use this command in your repository:

```shell
pnpm exec @db-ux/core-migration --type=v100_v200 --src=./src
```

Please check the changes made in your codebase afterwards, as this is mainly a simple search & replace and there might be unexpected changes of similar wordings to our properties for any other methods, or further code occurrences that don't even refer to properties.
