## Migration Beta (2.x.x) ➡ 3.0.0

## transparent-hovered/-pressed

We aligned some variables with design.

`db-adaptive-bg-basic-transparent-hovered` becomes:

- `db-adaptive-bg-basic-transparent-full-hovered`
- `db-adaptive-bg-basic-transparent-semi-hovered`

`db-adaptive-bg-basic-transparent-pressed` becomes:

- `db-adaptive-bg-basic-transparent-full-pressed`
- `db-adaptive-bg-basic-transparent-semi-pressed`

## db-button/DBButton type

### `type` property

We changed the behaviour of the `type` property in the `db-button`/`DBButton` component.
Those changes will only affect React and Vue users.
If you use `onClick` or `@click` you will get `type=button` as default, otherwise it will be `type=submit`.
You can still set the `type` property manually, to overwrite this.
Angular and Web Components users will not be affected by this change, the default will be `button`, because click event listeners can't be undefined in the frameworks.
Please provide the correct `type` property in your code anyhow as a best practise.

### `state` property

We removed the `state` property from the `db-button`/`DBButton` component for now.
It wasn't implemented in any framework causing some confusion, and we will reintroduce it in a future version.

## db-card/DBCard

### `behavior='interactive'` change

We changed the `behavior='interactive'` property not applying `role='button'` and `tabIndex` anymore.
If you want to use an interactive card, you should wrap the card with the correct HTML element, like a `button` or an `a` HTML tag:

```html
<!--Angular-->
<button type="button">
	<db-card behavior="interactive">
		<!-- card content -->
	</db-card>
</button>

<!--React/Vue-->
<button type="button">
	<DBCard behavior="interactive">
		<!-- card content -->
	</DBCard>
</button>
```

## breakpoints

We updated some breakpoints to align with design:

- `$db-screen-size-xs: 360` ➡️ `$db-screen-size-xs: 320`
- `$db-screen-size-sm: 720` ➡️ `$db-screen-size-sm: 768`

## icon-before/-after

We renamed the `data-icon-after` and `data-icon-before` properties to `data-icon-trailing` and `data-icon-leading`,
as well the properties in components to `iconTrailing` and/or `iconLeading`.
Furthermore, we added the possibility to set a trailing icon on the `db-button`/`DBButton` component.

You can still use `db-icon`/`icon` in most elements/components, which results in showing the default icon.
Most of the time this will be the leading icon, but in some cases it might be the trailing icon, depending on the component.

## Aria properties in components

### `db-button`/`DBButton`

- **Removed**: `describedbyid` property, just use `aria-describedby`
- **Removed**: `ariaexpanded` property, just use `aria-expanded`
- **Removed**: `ariapressed` property, just use `aria-pressed`
- **Removed**: `label` property, just use `aria-label`

### `db-link`/`DBLink`

- **Removed**: `selected` property, just use `aria-selected`
- **Removed**: `current` property, just use `aria-current`
- **Removed**: `label` property, just use `aria-label`

### `db-navigation`/`DBNavigation`

- **Removed**: `labelledBy` property, just use `aria-labelledby`

### `db-radio`/`DBRadio`

- **Removed**: `describedbyid` property, just use `aria-describedby`

### `db-switch`/`DBSwitch`

- **Removed**: `describedbyid` property, just use `aria-describedby`

### `db-tab-item`/`DBTabItem`

- **Removed**: `controls` property, just use `aria-controls`

### `db-tab-panel`/`DBTabPanel`

- **Removed**: `labelledBy` property, just use `aria-labelledby`

### `db-tag`/`DBTag`

- **Removed**: `disabled` property, use `disabled` on child component like `button` or `a` tag

## Automate migration via CLI

We provide a CLI tool to auto migrate your source code. Use this command in your repository:

```shell
pnpm exec @db-ux/core-migration --type=v200_v300 --src=./src
```

Please check the changes made in your codebase afterwards, as this is mainly a simple search & replace and there might be unexpected changes of similar wordings to our properties for any other methods, or further code occurrences that don't even refer to properties.
